Reasons not to buy from Amazon

If you want to order a book (or something else), don't buy it from Amazon. Amazon harms its customers, as well as workers, the national treasury, and many others that it affects.

Here's a good (though long) overview of why Amazon's overall activity is harmful to society overall.

This page lists alternatives to Amazon for buying various kinds of products. Some of these sites may share some of Amazon's unethical practices. I am pretty sure that any site selling MP3 files on the internet imposes an EULA — an inexcusable wrong. Streaming sites, too. And all of them identify the purchaser. It is better to buy from a store, and pay cash. Or else get a copy through sharing.

For a book, order it directly from the publisher or through a local book store. If you want to use a URL to refer to a book, please don't use an Amazon page.

Here are specific reasons — plenty of them.

Size

Sabotaging Customers

Limiting the Use of Cash

Restricting and Shafting Customers

Censorship

Snooping

Exploiting workers mercilessly

Shafting others in the publishing world

Dodging taxes

Vendors

Other Reasons
Size

    Amazon has so much power over the US retail economy that it imposes its power over all participants.

    If it is going to be a monopoly, it should be regulated like other monopolies. Or perhaps more.

    Amazon has so much market share that its sheer size distorts the market.

    We should not allow a company to have a share over around 10% of any market. If in a certain field a single dominant company is beneficial for society, that means it is a natural monopoly, and should be served by a regulated utility.

Sabotaging Customers

    Amazon offered a "30-day free trial", and started paid subscriptions automatically at the end of it.

    This is clearly an attempt to trick customers — wrong in all cases no matter how many companies do it.

    Amazon's persistent blindness to certain fraudulent sales schemes makes it easy for fraudsters to invalidate Amazon's guarantee to purchasers.

    Amazon closes the accounts of customers that send back a substantial fraction of products they buy. It has the additional effect of stealing any credit balance.

    Amazon appears to have cooperated with the US government to intercept a Thinkpad keyboard purchased by a Tor developer. To install a spy device, presumably.

    Amazon delays order processing for customers that have not paid a subscription fee for "prime" delivery.
