Reasons not to be used by Facebook

Why you should not 'use' (i.e., be used by) Facebook.

    I have never had a Facebook account. There is a Facebook account called "Richard Stallman", but it is an impostor.

    Putting the photo of someone on Facebook (or Instagram) contributes to surveillance of that person. Please don't post any photos there that include me, and I suggest you avoid posting photos of anyone else too.

If you feel your organization needs a "presence" in Facebook see this page.

If you feel you need to be used by Facebook to find out about parties at your school, you might look for someone in your circle who isn't ready to break ties with Facebook, but who is willing to take note of parties via Facebook and send messages to a list of Facebook-rejecting friends to inform them.

Here's a good article to present many of Facebook's injustices to your friends.

Housing Bias

Proposed Replacement

Real Names

Censorship

Privacy

Ads

Psychological Harm

Taxes

Racism

Control of media

Attacks on Democracy

Miscellaneous
Permitting Violence

Facebook Allowed Violent Posts by Man Charged with Ilhan Omar Death Threat.
Housing Bias

Facebook imposes bias on showing housing and employment ads even if the advertiser does not ask for any.
Proposed Replacement

I think Facebook should be eliminated entirely and replaced with an index of people. People would create records in the index under their names. Your record — if you make one — would give other people a way to contact you through various methods of messaging.

You could include a small amount of information about yourself to help people tell if you are the person they are seeking to contact, rather than another person with a similar name. Their messages to you would carry various contact coordinates in case you decide to respond.

It would do nothing more than that. It would not be allowed to do anything more, or have a special relationship with any other communication system.

This would provide a chance to decentralize the web again — but taking advantage of that chance would require other changes.
Real Names

Facebook requires useds to use their 'real' (the name they normally go by as defined by Facebook) on the site or risk having their accounts suspended.

Facebook is not your friend. Its 'real name' policy is enough reason to refuse to let it use you, but there is so much more nastiness in Facebook.

Even as Facebook oppresses real useds with its "real name" requirement, it is easy to buy and run a realistic Facebook account that is completely fake.

Facebook spontaneously asked its useds questions trying to expose useds who had not given their real names.

Facebook with its 'real name' policy makes itself the arbiter of other people's selves.

Under pressure from cross-dressers, Facebook said it would relax the 'real name' policy and allow people to use aliases, but only if they are generally known by those aliases or if they were victims of certain types of abuse or stalking.

This relieves a very specific acute problem, but does not enable ordinary people to use Facebook without being tracked.

However, reportedly Facebook has not really changed the policy.

Even if Facebook makes this change, it will be unacceptable because companies and the state will be able to connect the account with your real identity. In order for the site not to mistreat people, it must let you have one account to show your boss and your parents, another for your friends, and others for various kinds of political activism.

Facebook continues to close the accounts of people who go by unofficial names.

What happened to Koko the clown demonstrates why it is very foolish to talk with your clients through Facebook or to keep any important information in a Facebook account.

Facebook makes a practice of asking its useds* to rat on their friends who use aliases.